# Topological Spaces

## Open Sets

There are more that one way to define topological spaces, and the definition below might be the most popular one.

> #### Definition: Topologies and Topological Spaces
>
> Let $X$ be any set. A collection $\mathcal T \subseteq \mathcal P(X)$ is a **topology** for $X$, and $(X, \mathcal T)$ is a **topological space**, if and only if it satisfies the **open set axioms**. That is,
>
> 1. $X \in \mathcal T$;
> 2. $\mathcal T$ is closed under arbitrary union; explicitly, for any $\mathcal U \subseteq \mathcal T$, $\bigcup \mathcal U \in \mathcal T$;
> 3. $\mathcal T$ is closed under finite intersection; explicitly, for any finite $\mathcal F \subseteq \mathcal T$, $\bigcap \mathcal F \in \mathcal T$.
>
> In this case, a subset $U \subseteq X$ is an **open set** in $(X, \mathcal T)$, or an **open subset** of $X$, if and only if $U \in \mathcal T$.

Some authors also count $\emptyset \in \mathcal T$ as an open set axiom, but, rigorously, that is a conclusion deduced from the axioms above. As empty set is the subset of all sets, $\emptyset \in \mathcal T$. Then, we have
$$
\emptyset = \bigcup \emptyset \in \mathcal T.
$$
We can also **generate** a topology on $X$ from any **basis** $\mathcal B$ of of $X$. That is, to find the smallest topology $\mathcal T$ for $X$ containing $\mathcal B$. Note that, being a basis of $X$ requires $\mathcal B$ to satisfies the following condition:

1. $\mathcal B$ covers $X$;
2. for any $A, B \in \mathcal B$, there is a $\mathcal B' \subseteq \mathcal B$, such that $A \cap B$ can be considered as the union of $\mathcal B'$.

If we let $\mathcal T = \left\{\bigcup \mathcal A : \mathcal A \subseteq \mathcal B\right\}$, then, we find that $\mathcal T$ satisfies open set axioms, hence it is a topology for $X$. (details of the proof will be shown later.)

Inspired by this idea, we can define topologies as following.

> #### Lemma: An Alternative Definition of Topologies.
>
> Let $X$ be any set, and let $\mathcal T \subseteq \mathcal P(X)$.
>
> $\mathcal T$ is a topology for $X$ if and only if there is a $\mathcal B \subseteq \mathcal P(X)$ being a basis of $X$, such that
> $$
> \mathcal T = \left\{ \bigcup \mathcal A : \mathcal A \subseteq \mathcal B \right\}.
> $$

**Proof.** Assume $\mathcal T$ is a topology for $X$, then $\mathcal T$ itself is a basis of $X$, for wherever $A, B \in \mathcal T$, $A \cap B \in \mathcal T$, $A \cap B$ can be considered as the union of $\{A \cap B\}$ itself. So, $\mathcal T \subseteq \left\{ \bigcup \mathcal A : \mathcal A \subseteq \mathcal T \right\}$. As $\mathcal T$ is closed under arbitrary union, for any $\mathcal A \subseteq \mathcal T$, $\bigcup \mathcal A \subseteq \mathcal T$. So, $\mathcal T \supseteq \left\{ \bigcup \mathcal A: \mathcal A \subseteq \mathcal T \right\}$. Thus, we have
$$
\mathcal T = \left\{ \bigcup \mathcal A: \mathcal A \subseteq \mathcal T \right\}.
$$
$\Box$

One the other hand, assume there is a basis $\mathcal B$ of $X$, such that $\mathcal T$ is generated by $\mathcal B$; i.e.,

As $\mathcal B$ covers $X$, and $\mathcal B \subseteq \mathcal T$, we have $X = \bigcup \mathcal B \in \mathcal T$.

Let $\mathcal A \subseteq \mathcal B$. For any set $A \in \mathcal A$, there is an $\mathcal O_A \subseteq \mathcal B$, such that $A = \bigcup \mathcal O_A$. Then, we have
$$
\begin{aligned}
\bigcup_{A \in \mathcal A} A &= \bigcup_{A \in \mathcal A} \left( \bigcup \mathcal O_A \right) = \bigcup \left(\bigcup_{A \in \mathcal A} \mathcal O_A \right).
\end{aligned}
$$
The union in the bracket is a subset of $\mathcal B$, so the whole union is an element of $\mathcal T$. Hence, $\mathcal T$ is closed under arbitrary union.

Let $U, V \in \mathcal B$. Then, there is an $\mathcal U, \mathcal V \subseteq \mathcal B$, such that $U = \bigcup \mathcal U$ and $V = \bigcup \mathcal V$. Then, we have
$$
\begin{aligned}
A \cap B &= \bigcup \mathcal U \cap \bigcup \mathcal V \\
&= \bigcup_{U \in \mathcal U} \left( U \cap \bigcup \mathcal V \right) \\
&= \bigcup_{U \in \mathcal U} \left( \bigcup_{V \in \mathcal V} (U \cap V) \right).
\end{aligned}
$$
As $\mathcal B$ is a basis of $X$, there exists a $\mathcal O_{(U,V)} \subseteq \mathcal B$, such that
$$
U \cap V = \bigcup \mathcal O_{(U, V)}.
$$
Thus, we have
$$
\begin{aligned}
  A \cap B &= \bigcup_{(U, V) \in \mathcal U \times \mathcal V} \left( \bigcup \mathcal O_{(U, V)} \right) \\
  &= \bigcup \left( \bigcup_{(U, V) \in \mathcal U \times \mathcal V} \mathcal O_{(U, V)} \right).
\end{aligned}
$$
The union in the bracket is a subset of $\mathcal B$, thus $A \cap B \in \mathcal T$. By induction, for any finite $\mathcal F \subseteq \mathcal T$, $\bigcup \mathcal F \in \mathcal T$. Thus, $\mathcal T$ is closed under finite intersection.

$\blacksquare$

In this case, we say that $\mathcal T$ is **generated** by $\mathcal B$. But, note that, being generated by $\mathcal B$ does not means that $\mathcal T$ can only be generated by $\mathcal B$. For some topological space $(X, \mathcal T)$, there are many or even infinitly many basis $\mathcal B$ by which $\mathcal T$ can be considered as a topology generated.

For example, consider the Euclidean metric space $(\mathbb R^n, \rho)$. Let $\mathcal O$ be the set of all open balls in the space, i.e.,
$$
\mathcal O = \{B(x, \delta): x \in \mathbb R^n \land \delta \in \mathbb R_{> 0}\}.
$$
then $\mathcal O$ generates the **Euclidean topology** $\mathcal T$ for $\mathbb R^n$. In this case, we also say that $\mathcal T$ is **induced** from the metric $\rho$. In the mean time, let $\mathcal I$ be the set of all open intervals in $\mathbb R^n$, then it generates the same topology $\mathcal T$ for $\mathbb R^n$. (Why?) Or, let $\mathcal J$ be the set of all open intervals $(a,b)$ in $\mathbb R^n$, where for any $i \in \{1, \ldots, n\}$, $a_i, b_i \in \mathbb Q$, $\mathcal J$ still generates the same topology $\mathcal T$ (Why?). Also, let $\mathcal K$ be the set of all open intervals $(a,b)$ in $\mathbb R^n$ with for any $j \in \{2, \ldots, n\}$,
$$
b_j - a_j = r(a_{j-1} - b_{j-1}),
$$
where $r \in \mathbb R_{> 0}$. Then, $\mathcal K$ also is a basis of $X$, and generates the same topology $\mathcal T$. So, there are infinitely many basis $\mathcal B$ by which the Euclidean topology $\mathcal T$ can be considered as a topology generated.

The alternative definition above also reveals the reason why a topology is not necessarily closed under infinite intersection. In the Euclidean topological space $(\mathbb R, \mathcal T)$, any open intervals is open, so $\left\{(-n^{-1}, n^{-1})\right\}_{n \in \mathbb Z_{> 0}}$ is a subset of $\mathcal T$. But, its intersection is a singleton, $\{0\}$, which is not open in the space.

## Comparison of Topologies

For any set $X$, and for topologies $\mathcal T_1$ and $\mathcal T_2$ for $X$. $\mathcal T_1$ is said to be **coarser** than $\mathcal T_2$, or $\mathcal T_2$ is said to be **finer** than $\mathcal T$, if and only if $\mathcal T_1 \subseteq \mathcal T_2$.

The **discrete topology** for $X$ is actually $\mathcal P(X)$ itself. As any topology for $X$ must be a subset of $\mathcal P(X)$, $\mathcal T_{\rm dis}$ is the finest topology for $X$. The **indiscrete topology**, or **trivial topology**, for $X$ consists of only 2 elements, $\{\emptyset, X\}$. It is coarsest topology on $X$.

## Closed Sets

> #### Definition: Closed Sets
>
> In a topological space $(X, \mathcal T)$, a subset $S \subseteq X$ is said to be **closed** if and only if there is a $U \in \mathcal T$, such that $S = X \setminus U$.

In any topological space, there exist sets which is both open and closed; sometime, they are said to be **clopen**. For example, in any topological space $(X, \mathcal T)$, $X$ is clopen, as $\emptyset$ is both clopen (it will be proved later), and $X = X \setminus \emptyset$. Also, if $\mathcal T$ is a discrete topological space. Then, any subset of $X$ is clopen.

Note that, a set is not necessarily closed (open), even if it is open (closed). For example, in Euclidean topological space $(\mathbb R, \mathcal T)$, any bounded half open interval is neither closed nor open. Because, $\mathcal T$ is generated by the set $\mathcal I$ of all open intervals in $\mathbb R$, but there is no $\mathcal J \subseteq \mathcal I$ such that $\bigcup \mathcal J$ is a half open interval.

As closed sets are straightly defined as the complements of open sets, the following properties can be deduced by the open set axioms, sometimes referred as **closed set axioms**.

> #### Lemma: Closed Set Axioms.
>
> Let $(X, \mathcal T)$ be a topological space, and let $\mathcal C$ be the set of all closed sets in $(X, \mathcal T)$. Then,
>
> 1. $\emptyset, X \in \mathcal C$;
> 2. $\mathcal C$ is closed under arbitrary intersection;
> 3. $\mathcal C$ is closed under finite union.

**Proof.** As $X$ is open, $\emptyset = X \setminus X$ is closed. As $\emptyset$ is open, $X = X \setminus \emptyset$ is closed.

$\Box$

Let $\mathcal A \subseteq \mathcal C$. For any $A \in \mathcal C$, there is a $U_A \in \mathcal T$, such that $A = X \setminus U_A$. Then, we have
$$
\begin{aligned}
\bigcap\mathcal A &= \bigcap_{A \in \mathcal A} X \setminus U_A.
\end{aligned}
$$
By De Morgan’s law,
$$
\bigcap \mathcal A = X \setminus \bigcup_{A \in \mathcal A} U_A \in \mathcal T.
$$
$\Box$

Let $V, W \in \mathcal C$. By the definition of closed sets, $V^\complement$ and $W^\complement$ are open, so is $V^\complement \cup W^\complement$. Again, by the definition, $(V^\complement \cup W^\complement)^\complement$ is closed. Then, we have
$$
(V^\complement \cup W^\complement)^\complement = V \cap W
$$
is closed.

$\blacksquare$

